Hey everyone. Did you know that
Playright has two MCP servers? In this
video, I'm going to walk you through
both of them and what's the difference
between them so you can know which one
you're using and choose which one to use
for what. So, I've got VS Code here open
and I've already got the Playright MCP
server installed. Um, and I've already
got the Playright test MCP server
installed. So, I've got two MCP servers.
Now, how do I know what I'm using? How
do I know if I even have the Playright
MCP server installed? You can go to your
extensions tab and in here you can see
what's installed for your extensions,
but you can also see the MCP servers
installed. I've got context 7 installed.
I've got GitHub. I've got Microsoft
Docs. I've got Playright. I can click
here and I can read all about the
Playright MCP. And I've also got
Playright Test, which there's not much
information here as you can see. Um, but
it shows me that it's playright test and
that's the official MCB server for
testing that gets included when you run
the agent command. Let me break it down
a little bit. So, if you haven't already
started using Playright, you can um
install it very easily um in VS Code, in
claude or in whatever you are using. And
once you have it, you'll see that you
have some tools here, right? So, I've
got some tools here and I can just, you
know, write Playright and I can see I've
got Microsoft Playright MCP. That's the
actual official MCP server for
automating browser and doing whatever
you want to do such as buying tables,
filling out forms, or even testing. You
can use it for whatever. Now, what's
really interesting to check out is the
tool calling. So, the tools are what the
server is giving the LLM access to and
what it's able to do. So for example the
tools included in the playright MCP
server browser click browser close
browser console messages browser drag
browser evaluate browser file upload
browser fill form browser handle
dialogue hover install navigate back
press key resize select snapshots tabs
take screenshots very cool um type and
wait for so they are the tools available
to me if I'm using the playright MCP
server now there's also some other extra
configurations that you can add in there
and check out the the GitHub uh repo for
that to understand a little bit more
about it and also you'll be able to see
how to install it uh using whatever
you're using um be it VS code
cursor etc. So check out the docs for a
full list of how to easily install the
player at MCP server if that is what you
want to install.
Now, um let's take a look at what is
what am I going to use this for? Well, I
can basically use this for anything such
as um such as navigating to a website to
uh get an idea of what it's about. So,
you can say navigate. I can actually
just use voice. It might be quicker than
me typing. You ready? Let's do this.
Navigate to debie.codes and tell me what
Oh, I need to press stop listening.
Okay, so navigate to debi codes and tell
me what this website is about. So,
sometimes typing is probably better. And
I need to actually just go ahead and
press um enter there. Let's see if this
is enough. I'll help you navigate to
Debbie codes and explore what the
website is about. Now, you can see it's
ran the tool running navigate to her URL
um with the Microsoft Playright MCP
server. And if we look in under here,
um, you can see
now you see we've got a URL. It got an
error here, which is great, right? So
you can see the input in here that the
URL it decided was Debbie codes, but
it's actually Debbie.codes, but it
didn't understand me. Um, so the error
name not resolved. And uh, then it's
doing a little bit of work here. And it
ran navigate URL. So it tried this
Debbie. Didn't find it. So, let me try
searching for Debbie codes to find the
correct website. Now, I had this open on
another screen. So, I'm sorry you didn't
get to see this, but actually open
Google and actually searched and then it
found um the look there you go the URL
google.com. So, it opened Google and it
searched and it basically uh typed in
what I need to type in.
Um here we go. We've got click in the
search box. So, these are all the tools
it's using the type text Debbie codes. I
ran a page sna snapshot to see like
what's going on under when it puts in
deb.codes codes. What's it getting back?
Right, this is really cool. And then it
clicked um the element was Debbie codes
website link. So it was able to find me.
I'm so glad that Google's able to find
me. That's cool. Ran, press the key, run
click, and excellent. Now it has a
comprehensive understanding of the
Debbie codes website based on my
explanation. Here's what this website is
about. Um so there we go. This is
everything about me and about all my
website. So that's just one thing that
the Playright MCP server can do, but it
can do many, many things. Anything that
you can do in the browser, it can do.
And if I just like bring that down a
little bit, I can possibly bring this
over. And you can see there that um
there's the website it opened up. It
even actually opened the about page to
understand more about me. So that's kind
of pretty cool. So just think about the
things you can do there. That's the
Playright MCP server.
Um, if you're ever in doubt, of course,
you can always just use agent mode and
say, you know, how do I install the
Playright MCP server? Uh, we let's let's
give that a try, shall we? How do I
I was a bit quick there, right? So, let
me see. Did it actually um catch up on
what I want to do. I'll help you install
the player MCP model context protocol
server based on what I saw on Debbie's
website. is a powerful tool for AI
assisted browser automation and testing.
I love it. Let me check there was any
existing MCB. So, it's going true and
it's obviously going to see that I have
it right. And it's installing there.
Now, this is actually uh I just stopped
it there. I shouldn't have but it was
giving me option one, which is install
the server globally, which is not what
we want to do. Um but should we should
have just let it go true. But basically,
what I'm saying is that if you're
watching this video and then you're
like, "Oh, I need to go and click links
and it like use the tools available to
you, right? So use like agent mode and
just keep asking the agent how do I do
this? How do I do this? How do I do
this? Instead of like think about the
agent. I'm the I'm your agent. I'm your
agent but it's the agent. U okay. So
that's the playright MCP. Now we're
going to move on to the playright test
MCP server. What's the difference? Well,
let's have a look in here. Now I've
already got it installed. Um you will
get this installed by actually running
the command. I think it's called npx
playright in an agent-loop equals VS
code. Um that's check the docs um for
the actual uh link. I'll put it in the
description as well. But basically what
you're doing is you're getting um this
just comes here under the hood because
this is included. This is what gets
generated for you is av folder and
inside an MCP.json JSON file and in here
we've got the playright test MCP server
and I've added this extra command, this
extra arg here um headless so that the
browser does not pop up each time I ask
it to do something just because I want
agents to work behind the scenes and not
always be popping up and showing me
stuff. But I could remove that if I
needed to. Now it's also added in um an
agents folder depending on the version
you're using. It might be um a chat mode
folder. Uh but the latest newest version
which should be out very soon is going
to be the agents folder. And that's what
we are basically installing as agents.
So here we've got the playright test
generator agent, the healer agent, and
the planner agent. Now these files are
here and you can go ahead and read
through them. It gives you a name, a
description, the tools that it's allowed
to use and the model. You could change
the model if you wanted to. So that's up
to you. This is just the one we think is
better, but you could go ahead and put
something else in there. And of course,
this is generated for you. You could
read all this if you want to. And you
can also tweak it if you wanted to. Now,
be careful because if you tweak it and
you run that command again, it will
install it will just rewrite the file,
right, for you. So, it'll write
overwrite everything that you've
changed. But you can call it you could
like you know duplicate this um and call
it my for example
um
my playright test generator right
and then in here you can add or the
tools should you decide other tools are
necessary I don't think so but should
you decide for whatever reason um but
you this is really important like to
kind of not mess with how it's set up
but maybe there's something else you
want an add in here. You could totally
do that. Just saying. Just leaving it
there. Just leaving it there for you.
But and we don't need to do this. I'm
going to delete this. But I'm just
letting you know that, you know, this is
just a file that you can actually tweak
to your own necessity should you be
using a certain thing that you need to
use that we are not covering in this. So
you want to make it specifically your
own. This is how you would do it. So my
agents are there. That gets generated. I
don't have to do anything with it. I can
just leave it as it is. I can leave the
MCP file as it is. And uh you've seen
some of my videos if you haven't checked
those on and how to use the seed file
and how to how to do that. What I want
to do is and let me just close this file
here. I want to just have a chat with my
agent. And you'll see now um down here I
have playright test generator, playright
test healer, and playright test planner.
And I've got this other agent here, but
don't worry about that for now. So for
example, um we would normally start with
a planner. So that's the agent that we
would use. Now, if you are not sure of
what this agent does, I mean, you can
hover over it and it will give you a
little thing, but you can basically just
there? It didn't capture that. Hey, what
Right? So, if you're unsure of what this
agent does and you want a full
explanation, this is I'm GitHub co-pilot
and I'm currently running in playright
test planner mode. In this mode, I'm
specialized in creating comprehensive
web application test plans using
Playrite. And here's what I can do for
you. Web analysis applica um application
analysis, test planning and design, test
documentation, quality assurance, focus,
and I can help you create thorough test
plans for web applications by exploring
them interactively and documenting
comprehensive test scenarios that
development and QA teams can follow.
Would you like me to analyze a specific
web application and create a test plan
for it? And then you can go ahead and do
that if you want to. So you can kind of
run this with all these um tools. Let's
like take healer for example.
What do you do? Let's just type it in
because I'm a little bit faster than
speaking. Uh I'm again copilot. My prim
is to debug and fix broken playright
tests. Here's what I do. I run test
suites to identify failing tests. I
debug individualize failing test step by
step. Analyze error messages um etc etc.
So you can read all this about what it
does. Now look at this. I mark
problematic tests as test off. Fix me if
needed and I document fixes and
reasoning. So this is really cool. I
work systematically and autonomously. I
don't ask questions. I analyze the
situation, implement the most reasonable
fixes to get your test passing and I
focus on creating maintainable robust
solutions rather than quick hacks. Would
you like me to analyze and fix any
failing playright tests? So again, this
is really cool. Keep asking the agent
questions like what do you do? How can I
improve this? You know, you you could
write a prompt and then even say like is
this prompt good enough? Can how can I
improve this prompt? Right now we were
talking about what's the difference
between these MCP servers. Let's take a
look at the tools to understand. So if I
look at the playright test MCP server,
uh you can see that there are some
things checked and some things not
checked. That's because these agents
have some tools specifically allocated
to them and other tools not. For
example, the healer doesn't need um to
click or close, but it needs the console
messages because it's debugging. It
doesn't need to drag, but it needs to
evaluate. It doesn't need to upload a
file or fill out a form, but it needs to
generate a locator. So, these are the
tools that it has available to it.
Think, look at this. Hover install,
mouse click, mouse drag, uh navigate
back, network requests, returns all
network requests since loading the page.
Very important, especially for
debugging. Uh resize, select option,
snapshot, start tracing, stop tracing.
So we can trace as well. Um we got tabs,
you got take screenshots, uh type,
verify an element is visible, verify
list visible, verify text visible,
verify value, wait for load, log, setup
page, write test, and uh the planner
setup page. Then you got test, debug,
test list, and test run. So again, if I
went ahead and just changed that. Now,
don't like tweak this because it might
just go ahead and change it for you. You
don't want that. But click on generator
and then I can just you know modify have
a look at the tools that are available
under under this one right so you can
see there are a couple of different
tools now added in here um and that's
basically what you want to be checking
or what you want to you want to
understand what's going on right now you
don't have to do anything here I'm just
explaining things so that you know how
it works so that when you go to your
head of engineering head of QA head of
whatever and you're asking can I use
this MCP server ever so that you know
the tools that are available to you,
what is included and what is not
included and what is the difference
between one and the other. So I hope
this kind of explains it a little bit.
The playright test MCB server is
specifically made for testing. So if you
want to test your application, if you
want to generate test plans, if you want
to um generate tests, if you want to
heal some tests, fix and debug tests,
that's the MCP server that you want to
use. Now, this is only available for
TypeScript. So, at the moment that this
video is being created, it's only
available for TypeScript at the moment.
Um, I'm not sure what the road map is
for other languages, but check GitHub
issues for that. Um, but if you are
writing code in other languages, then I
would recommend you use the Playright
MCP server, which doesn't have as many
tools as the test server when it comes
to testing. But uh you can still you
know be quite productive um with testing
with other languages using the Playright
MCP server. So that is basically it. I
hope that makes it clear. If you're
going to ask you know why is this here
for example and the Playright MCP server
not here that's because this is local
because we've installed this. This is
local to this workspace. So I'm not
going to if I open up another workspace
I'm not going to find that server
installed. So when I run that command
from the docs, it's going to add this
file in here and it makes it specific to
this workspace only to this project
only. So I will not find it across
others. Whereas when I install playright
MCB server, I can install it globally
across all my repos and then I just
always have it available. And again, you
could choose to not do that and just add
it in here if you wanted to.
Um, I hope that explains things a little
bit better. Um, but it is really really
cool what I can do. Like I can, you
know, I have a load of tests in here.
Um, this is the movies rapper. So I can
actually go to agent mode. I'm just
going to play around here for a couple
of seconds before we say goodbye. Let's
do this. Um,
let's open up a new chat and let's just
say uh what is the um
GitHub URL for this rapper
for example? Um this is a playright
movies app that I've created just for
playing around uh with things so that
you can have a good idea. So I do all my
kind of testing in this website. So this
is the URL github.com debs-obrian
playwright movies app. Um the repository
name is playwright movies app and it's
under debs O'Brien. So check that out on
GitHub if you want to um check that out.
And I can say how many tests do I have?
For example, um I'll check how many
tests you have in your playright test
suite and it's going to do npx playright
test list to do that. Based on the
playright test listing, you have 107
tests across 72 uh test files. That's
pretty impressive. Um now let's see if I
can answer this. How many of these tests
were created
by an agent?
Um, so to determine if a test is created
by an age, I need to examine the test
files. So it's going to do that and it's
going to search to the reax agent and
search the git history. And this is
pretty kind of cool. Um, and I I reckon
there's probably quite a lot in there.
I've actually put in a tag um in there.
I'm going to see if it's going to find
that. But what's really cool is that you
can actually then tag them and say these
were done by the agent. These were done
by me. And you can just keep using agent
mode to just like find out things, ask
things, especially when you go to a new
project uh and and find out um like
what's going on in this project? Are
these these created? So basically the
agent generated test summary, the total
test created by agents were 75 plus
tests. And here's the breakdown. This is
pretty cool, right? Uh the initial agent
generated tests, uh the one comma, six
tests, and the comprehensive agent
generated tests, 69 tests. This is so
true. This actually took a hell of a
long time. time I went through it one by
one by one and then finally made a big
mass of PR and and again this is totally
open source you can go totally check
that out and the final test fixes by the
healer agent were nine tests um so
that's really really cool so um out of
107 tests approximately 70 to 75% were
created by AI agents
now you can be the decider of are those
tests good or not uh to me they are
there I think they're great I've I've
been playing around with this a hell of
a lot with these agents um before that I
I was using just the playright MCP
server to create the test but I find the
test uh MCP server so the agents do a
much better job. Um all those tests are
here. What you do when you need to
manage those tests I would use the um UI
mode to do that. So we can open up a
terminal. Um and I'm going off track a
little bit but that's okay. MPX playride
test-ui.
Um, and that will open up a UI um, inter
user interface here with all the tests
that I have available. So I can quickly
like read through it. And you see I've
put agent tags on the test that I've,
you know, created by the agent. Um, and
I can go ahead and just run all those
tests. So I can search for only the
agent ones, etc. Um, and press play, run
them all and and then go through them
one by one and see how things are. Um,
that's how I check through all um my
agents work. After it's done, I let it
go ahead do things in the background.
Obviously, I'm running the three agents
one after the other. Let's have a look
at this one here that's been generated.
That's finished running. And you can see
um and go through as a user would do.
This looks good. It went in there. It
did this. And actually can see the
source code as well. Uh expecting it to
be visible and the page list it went to,
etc. So that's uh that's it for this
video. Um
now that you have a clear idea of which
Playright MCP server you are using or
you should be using or could be using um
I challenge you to go ahead and give
them a try. Um depending on your use
case. Check out my previous videos for
all other cool things you can do with
Playright MCP servers and with Playright
agents. And happy testing everyone. Have
